---
layout: post
title: "2013 Ahead"
date: 2013-01-30 14:23
comments: true
categories: life
---

2013 is already a promising year. Nicole and I just moved into an <a class="fancybox" href="../images/assets/new_apartment_2013.jpg" title="Our Amazing Loft">amazing apartment</a> which we're excited to make our own. Especially exciting is creating a workspace where my creative projects can live. I'm booked to teach two dance events this year and the dance troupe is rolling along with our choreography for ILHC. There is a lot I would like to get to this year, and even if I don't or if my ideas change partway through the year, that's okay.

Below are some vaguely sweeping themes for 2013. They are followed by some more specific intentions constrained to the first quarter of the year.

##Themes of 2013

####Making & Craftsmanship
I'm looking forward to creating as a big part of 2013. The first part of that will be fashioning a workspace. From there I'll hopefully litter the space with sketches, schematics, code, writings, and possibly even some physical projects including arduiono systems. I get so very excited when I have the chance to actually spend time working with my hands and the only way to get better at my craft is to put in the time and work.

####Reading & Mental Exploration
One of the greatest ways for me to break out of my own ideas and perspective is to surround myself in the words and thoughts of someone else. I aim to spend more time reading, digesting and exploring the mental spaces of others. Whether that is through finding possibilities in fiction, deepening my understanding of scientific or technical realms, or drifting through visual spaces with art, architecture and design books.

##Next 3 Months

####Creative Workspace
Create a space where I feel comfortable tinkering, sketching, floating amongst my own ideas. Invest time in designing how that space is going to feel; how it is going encourage me to create; how it will enhance how and why I work. To not feel constrained by its prettiness or acceptability. To feel free in that space to start in on the daunting blank canvas and to leave work out, rough edges and all that will tease at me to finish them.

####RWS Downtime
RWS will stand as shorthand for read, write or sketch. In my downtown, rather than spend time on social networks, checking email or watching videos, I'll spend it either reading, writing, or sketching. In this way I'll be working within one of my two themes for the year, but also engaging in a different way with my idle time.

####Find A Design Mentor
One of the things I learned over the last year working with athletic coaches was that having someone there to observe, give feedback, and push you past your current limits. I want to find and develop a relationship with a designer locally to give me those same kinds of nudges and feedback as a designer. Part of that will be connecting with a lot of more senior designers who are working in spaces I find interesting, the rest will be a work in progress.